#summary Archived version of old matlabTools homepage

`MatlabTools` is a collection of Matlab/Octave functions written by [http://people.cs.ubc.ca/~murphyk/ Kevin Murphy], Matt Dunham, and [contributingAuthors various other people]. It contains nearly 400 functions, and over 14,000 [http://matlabtools.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/docs/matlabToolsStats.html lines of code]. 
It was derived by extracting various generic functions from [http://code.google.com/p/pmtk3/ PMTK3], which is a package for probabilistic data modeling. The functions in `MatlabTools` can be used independently of PMTK, but some of the function names still reflect its past. For a larger set of contributed matlab tools, see [http://www.mathworks.com/matlabcentral/].

=== Description === 

This table lists the folders within `MatlabTools`. Click on the link to see the list of files in that folder, with a brief description. Click on the file to see its
source code, including comments on how to use it.

||[http://matlabtools.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/docs/synopsis/util.html util] || General purpose utility functions for e.g. operating on strings, cells, structs, etc ||
|| [http://matlabtools.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/docs/synopsis/stats.html stats] || Statistics related functions - see also [http://pmtk3.googleCode.com/ PMTK] ||
|| [http://matlabtools.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/docs/synopsis/graph.html graph] || Functions for operating on graphs represented as adjacency matrices ||
|| [http://matlabtools.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/docs/synopsis/oop.html oop] || Tools for object oriented programming in Matlab ||
|| [http://matlabtools.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/docs/synopsis/graphics.html graphics] || Various graphics related functions ||
|| [http://matlabtools.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/docs/synopsis/metaTools.html metaTools] || Tools for analyzing code and building reports ||

_These reports were autogenerated by the matlabTools [http://code.google.com/p/matlabtools/source/browse/trunk/metaTools/generateSynopsisTable.m generateSynopsisTable.m] function_.


=== Download ===

Click [http://matlabtools.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/matlabTools.zip here] to download the latest version. 

=== Installation ===

Unzip the download to e.g. C:\matlabTools, and add it to your matlab path with e.g.
{{{addpath(genpath('C:\matlabTools'))}}}.

=== Contributing Code ===


Authorized users can  check in changes to the source
code and/or documentation using the [http://code.google.com/p/matlabtools/source/checkout svn interface] (see [http://code.google.com/p/pmtk3/wiki/svnHintsAndTips here] for some hints and tips). Also, they can edit the documentation via the <a href = "http://code.google.com/p/matlabtools/w/list">wiki interface</a>. To become an authorized user, send Kevin Murphy an email describing your credentials. Contributors of code  should follow the guidelines [updatingMatlabTools here].